# SVP_basic_gfx

This is a basic code example showing how basic SVP/Mega Drive interactions work and how a crude framebuffer can be created on the SVP side (and sent back to the VDP to be shown in screen). It's more or less commented and I think it's a good place to start to play with the SVP in order to create (actual) cool stuff with it :).

## Code structure

- **main.asm**: main file for the 68000 side of the sample. Each frame it sends a "command" to the SVP to create a framebuffer and handles sending graphics data from the DRAM inside the Virtua Racing cartridge back to the VDP.
- **svp.asm**: additional routines to generate the tilemap for the graphics generated by the SVP and sending a command to the DSP.
- **svp_gfx.svp**: main file for the SVP side of the sample. Allows the DSP to wait for a command coming from the Mega Drive in order to create a colored framebuffer and storing it in DRAM.

Besides these, other files handle VDP initialization, printing text in screen, etc...

## How to build

### Motorola 68000 side

You can assemble the M68000 part of this sample with `SNASM68K.EXE`:

`SNASM68K.EXE /p main.asm,output.map,output.lst,output.bin`

### Samsung SSP160x

The Motorola 68000 part of the binary needs to be later fed up to the [SSP16xx assembler](../../tools/ssp16asm) in order to build the SVP part of the code on top of it. To assemble the SVP part and generate the final ROM:

`ssp16asm -b output.bin svp_gfx.svp rom_svp.bin`

## Acnowledgement

Many parts in the M68000 side of this sample are based on the work of other developers in 
the Mega Drive/Genesis scene, specially the [following samples](https://github.com/BigEvilCorporation/megadrive_samples/) by Matt Phillips/BigEvilCorporation.

The amazing technical documentation found in the [Plutiedev site](https://plutiedev.com/) were a big help too.

Finally the reverse engineering on the SVP originally made by Tasco Deluxe and Grazvydas Ignotas (notaz),
which obviously helped a lot for the development of the SSP16xx assembler, and the understanding of its behavior.

## License

This code is MIT-licensed. Also take into account the following conditions of use:

* Please use this code sample for good. Also for fun. But good fun, not evil fun. 
* If you build something really cool (moderately cool also works) please drop me a comment at `taiyou[at]gmail.com`.
* You're not forced, but if you use this code I'd appreciate if you could acknowledge me :).